Release packaging documentation (#961)
openghg/openghg: doc/source/development/packaging.rst

==================
Packaging releases
==================

OpenGHG is now fully tested and deployed using GitHub actions.
The most updated developer code lies in the `OpenGHG repository <https://github.com/openghg/openghg>`_

> The development process should be;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The development process should be:
```

Reviewer: I think you want to use ":" to start a list, rather than ";"

==================
Packaging releases
==================

OpenGHG is now completely tested and deployed using GitHub actions.
The most updated developer code lies in the `OpenGHG repository <https://github.com/openghg/openghg>`_

> The development process should be:

Reviewer 2: Maybe this could be a numbered list of things?

* New changes to any section of the code base should always be made using feature branches.

.. code-block:: bash

   git checkout -b branch_name

.. note::

>    branch_name - Iss(Issue number) recommended if the change is a bug fix for an issue. E.g. “Iss123_add_attributes”. May also want to include “fix_” and “feature_” as appropriate.

Reviewer 2: I don't think we need this as a note. Maybe an example below with a `git checkout -b Iss961/updateReleaseDocs` or something.

* Pull requests are issued from these branches to ``devel``. All merge conflicts
  must be fixed in the branch and all tests must pass before the pull
  request can be merged into ``devel``.

The result of this is that ``devel`` should contain the fully working 
tested, and most up-to-date version of ``OpenGHG``. However, this
version should not be used for production runs.

Defining a release
------------------

Releases aim to be backwards compatible and capable of being used for production runs, at least for
the functionality that is fully described in the tutorial.

We use `semantic versioning <https://semver.org>`__ and take care

> not to cause breaking changes in the public API.

Reviewer: The semvar website says we should not have version numbers starting with 0. I guess it's not the most important part of what they specify

Author: Yes, we can decide on it sometime

Creating a release
------------------

> * The creation of the packages required by PyPI and conda is handled in the     GitHub actions workflow files under ``.github/workflows/workflow.yaml``. The package build and release workflow will only be triggered by a tagged commit. Before we get to this step we need to make sure everything is set up to do a release.

Reviewer 2: I don't think these need to be bullet points.

> * Ensure all issues in a ``milestone`` are complete

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Ensure all issues in the release milestone are complete
```

> Ensure all issues in the release milestone are complete

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ensure all issues in the release milestone are complete.
```

* To create a release first check-out the ``devel`` branch.

.. code-block:: bash

   git checkout devel
   git pull

Make sure to have a fully working devel branch.

* Now update the [Unreleased] section of the ``Changelog.md`` with the "release number - date of release". Ensure all the changes are included in the file. If not update it accordingly.

* Also add [Unreleased] section at the top of ``Changelog.md`` along with the link to the latest diff as shown below:

.. code-block:: bash

   ## [Unreleased](https://github.com/openghg/openghg/compare/0.8.0...HEAD)

   ## [0.8.0] - 2024-03-19

> 

Reviewer: Are these changes committed to devel?

Author: its on master

* Now create a PR to merge ``devel`` into ``master`` with name of PR as (Release Version). Once the PR is approved, check-out ``devel`` in your terminal.

Tagging a new release
---------------------

Now that you are happy that the release is ready, you can tag the new
version. This can be done using the following commands:

.. code-block:: bash

   git checkout devel
   git tag -a {VERSION} -m "OpenGHG release v{VERSION}" && git push origin {VERSION}

replacing ``{VERSION}`` with the version number. E.g.

.. code-block:: bash

   git tag -a 0.8.0 -m "OpenGHG release v0.8.0" && git push origin 0.8.0

The tag will be used by an automatic versioning script to generate
the version numbers of the code. Building the package
(as happens below) will automatically update the _version.py
that is included in the package to tag versions.

This will also trigger a full CI/CD to test and build the new version.
Again, it should work as this tag was taken from your fully-tested
"devel" branch.

Completing the release
----------------------

> Once you are satisfied that all workflows have run successfully check the latest version of the ``OpenGHG`` is live on both `PyPi <https://pypi.org/project/openghg/>`_ as well as `Anaconda <https://anaconda.org/openghg/openghg>`_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you are satisfied that all workflows have run successfully, check that the latest version of the ``OpenGHG`` is live on both `PyPi <https://pypi.org/project/openghg/>`_ as well as `Anaconda <https://anaconda.org/openghg/openghg>`_.
```
